When I became single again, I started going on group holidays,
walking

in

remote

places.

We

stayed

overnight

in

isolated

retreats and hostels and it became the custom for the evening
entertainment to be story-telling, each one taking his turn.
However the teller was given the theme by the group and so the
story had to be spontaneous. On one particular night, the
conversation had turned to fishing and I wondered what I would
talk about if they gave me that subject. I have never caught a
fish in my life and in fact I am really sorry for poor fish,
being hoisted out on a cruel hook and being killed or simply
thrown back to sink or swim. But if a story had to be told I
would give them the Fisherman's Mother's Tale.......

It was a tricky situation. My son, Pete and I were staying for
a month in Australia with my old flame, Giles and his wife,
Tina. Originally I had planned to go on the trip alone to
accept, at last, a very long-standing invitation. Then Pete
had to have an operation on the main valve of his heart and
had a year off university to recuperate. So it seemed a great
idea

for

him

to

come

with

me.

Giles

and

Tina

graciously

accepted this addition, and were kind enough to ask about
Pete's likes and dislikes so that they could be ready to make

him welcome. I did not want to harp on his bad points (ie.
that

he

looked

like

a

vagrant)

so

I

said

that

he

would

certainly prefer strumming his guitar on a balcony than going
to

a

posh

restaurant.

I

imagined

them

worrying

about

the

arrival of a dysfunctional teenager in their midst. Pete, I
suspected,

had

mixed

feelings

about

the

trip

too.

He

was

excited at the prospect of the trip, but knew that he was
likely to be surrounded by aged adults and not really able to
do his own thing. He must have felt his worst fears were
realised when we found that Giles was a health and control
freak and Nita, kind and motherly and missing her children,
pandered to his every whim and to anyone else's should they
make them known.

But

they

were

attentive

hosts

and

had

arranged

several

expeditions for us. One of these was a fishing trip. According
to Tina, Giles loved fishing but had very rarely let himself
indulge his passion. His sons had been unenthusiastic and his
sense of responsibility would not allow him to just take off
and leave her and the young family. Now, she would be happy to
accompany him but he worried that she would be bored and so he
wouldn't

enjoy

it

anyway.

She

certainly

seemed

a

bit

apprehensive about this trip and by the end I understood why.

We started early and did an inland trip through Nimbin (the
hippy

town).

Giles

hated

Nimbin

but

thought

that

we

(especially Pete) would like to see it. The place reeked of
“grass”

but

it

didn't

seem

to

do

anything

to

calm

Giles

temper. We made for the coast through a tortuous network of
dirt

roads. It seemed to take for ever. Giles' driving became

more and more frenetic, skidding round the bends and bouncing
over the bumps. Finally, rather late, hot and thirsty, we
skidded to a halt before the bait shop. Disaster! - there was
no bait left. Giles with a face like thunder listened to longwinded instructions as to where to find a good place for beach
fishing and for bait collecting in the estuary.

Giles got out of the car and starting striding off towards the
beach.

"Giles,

aren't

we

having

any

lunch."

called

Tina

tentatively. Giles was on a very strict no-added fat, salt or
sugar diet and started the day with an enormous bowl of mixed
grain porridge that seemed to last him all day. He had little
patience

with

the

weaknesses

of

others

needing

to

eat

at

regular intervals.

He came back glowering and began throwing things out of the
back of the Range Rover - picnic basket, chairs, cool box,
blanket, and giving out orders. "You carry this. Pete, grab
hold of this. Tina, take this.. no, not like that... hold it

UPRIGHT...."

Laden,

we

all

stumbled

after

him

towards

the

beach.

We finally got settled beneath a sand ridge on a rather bleak
windswept

stretch. Giles

fat-free,

vegetarian

disappeared.

sandwich

for

Tina
him.

prepared
Pete

a

huge

looked

on

hungrily; he had not had much breakfast at all.

"He won't want this," she said. "All he wants to do is to get
on with the fishing. Just look at him now."

He was in the sea, the water up to his knees, doing what
looked like some sort of tribal dance, twisting his hips from
side to side.

"What is he doing?" I asked, trying to keep my face straight.

"Trying to find bait with his toes." We burst out laughing and
remained in a somewhat frivolous mood which only served to
heighten

Giles's

grimness

and

dedication

to

the

task.

He

bolted the sandwich and said, "Come along, Pete. Let's get
started. We need to get the bait gear from the car." Pete
rolled his eyes and trailed off, clutching his stubby of beer.

Tina

and

I

settled down

for

a two-hour

chat

about

family

matters, mine in England and hers in Australia. It was the
first time we had really spoken and fortunately we got on
well. It was not warm on the beach. We huddled in our jackets
and watched the rollers crashing in. Finally we got stiffly to
our feet and gathered up the picnic things. "They should be
well started on the fishing by now," said Tina, "but where are
they? I would have expected them to fish from the beach."

What a sight met our eyes when we finally found them in the
estuary. Giles with mud up to the level of his special fishing
shorts frenetically wielding what turned out to be a "yabby"
pump, and squirting muddy water at Pete's feet. In the mud
were "yabbies", little shrimp-like things, and Pete had to
scrabble about and pick them up before they scuttled away and
submerged again. Pete's ragged combat trousers were rolled to
his knees, his legs mud-bespattered, his blonde hair whipping
in

the

breeze.

The

expression

on

his

face

was

enigmatic,

slightly resigned and slightly amused, as if he were humouring
a child that was

being tiresome but in some way funny.

Just as we approached, Giles threw the pump at Pete and said,
"You pump for a bit. I'll grab them. You're not quick enough."

Tina turned to me. Again we were perilously close to laughing.
"I think that's a dangerous move," she said, "Pete might just

squirt it all over him. Might be a good thing - he's out of
control."

Then

she

called

out.

"Haven't

you

got

enough

bait

yet?

Thought the fishing would be all over by now."

Giles raised his eyes from the mud and glared. He saw the
broad grins on our faces and was not amused. "No, we haven't,"
he said shortly, "We've had to spend hours getting this damned
yabbie

pump

mended.

But

we'd

better

get

started

now.

The

tide's about right."

We set off in a ragged line towards a little beach on the
estuary. It was dusk and the waves were marching into the
river mouth and hissing on the beach. Tina and I tried to get
comfortable on a rock. Giles busied himself with the first rod
and was soon giving Pete his first lessons in baiting a hook
and casting a line. Peace reigned for five minutes while Pete
stood quietly with his line in the water and Giles tried to
prepare the second rod. The line was hopelessly tangled. His
actions became more and more agitated. He tried to untangle
the line while instructing Pete as to what he should be doing.
"You've got to keep reeling the line in a bit - to move the
bait. That's it. Try again. Darn this thing. Who left it in
this state? Have you any bait left on the hook? Reel it in and

see,

and

if

not,

re-bait

it.

Curse

this

damned

thing........."

Darkness

was

falling.

squatted

in front of us

shrimps.

His

long

Pete

had

to

re-bait.

gazing into

fingers

hovered

the

over

pot
the

He

came

of

wriggling

pot

and

and

then

withdrew.

I was suffering with my son. I knew that he didn't want to
bait the hook. The though of squashing some living thing out
of existence would be horrible. I wanted him to say so and
nearly shouted out myself. But I held my tongue. He wasn't a
child any more; he needed to fight his own battles. I didn't
want to make him look like a mother's boy, a lily-livered Pom.

As his hand came over the bait or the fifth time Tina asked,
"Are you all right, Pete?"

"I don't know which one to choose………"

he said. I understood

perfectly. He didn't know which of the squirming mini-lobsters
to condemn to death. Finally his hand plunged into the bucket
and the fingers tried unsuccessfully to squash the pinkishgrey mass onto the hook. His distaste was palpable. Finally
Giles came to his rescue, deftly baited the hook and telling
him he would have to learn to do it for himself if he wanted

to be a fisherman.

Giles's rod was sorted out. For five minutes the two of them
fished quietly in the gathering dark. Then Giles threw down
his rod. "It's no good here. We'll have to go onto the jetty."

Again the ragged procession struggled up the beach and with
difficulty picked its way down the stone jetty. "You get down
on that rock, Pete." said Giles, indicating a wet, dangerous
looking

place about two feet above the wave line. Again my

heart was in my mouth as my darling son clambered in his
ungainly unlaced boots down towards the seething waters. In my
mind

he

was

swept

away,

out

to

sea,

never

to

be

seen

again.....For the first time in our long acquaintance I was
angry with Giles. Why did he keep pitting my son against these
dangerous and unpleasant things?

Pete managed to keep his footing on the rock, and then began
the battle of the torches. There were only two of them and it
was now so dark that all operations required their assistance.
Tina

and

invisible

I,

who

flying

had

tried

hooks,

kept

to

keep

being

out

of

called

the

in

range

of

help

in

to

holding rods and shining lights. The torches kept getting lost
and there was no light to find them.....Tempers were fraying
when

the

call

came

up

from

Pete,

"I

think

I've

caught

something." Great excitement. Giles gave instructions as to
how it was to be hauled in. It was landed - a great mass of
seaweed. Tina and I gazed at each other in horror. "We'll be
here

all

night," she said

sadly,

"He

won't

go

home

until

someone catches a fish, preferably him". The whole performance
had to be gone through again in the dark. Then as our fingers
began

to

freeze, the cry

something."

again,

"I

think

I've

really

got

YES. A medium sized bream was flapping in the

torchlight.

"OK, Pete. Your fish. You need to cut off its head just below
the gills."

Not again! I imagined the thoughts going through

Pete's head. "I've got to kill this poor thing, that a moment
ago was swimming in the sea. I have to kill this beautiful
silver creature. I have never killed anything before."

"Say you don't want to, Pete," I prayed, "Say if you don't
want to. It doesn't matter what he thinks. So what if he
thinks 'Feeble bloody Pom.'

What does it matter."

The guitar-playing fingers took the knife and started to cut.
It was not a clean, swift act but a slow, bloody hack. Finally
the job was done. Tina and Giles had already collected up the
rods and were disappearing down the track. My son sat back on
his heels and surveyed the fish and his scaly, bloody hands.

He smiled.

"I'm glad I've done that," he said, "Now I know I can do it if
I have to."

So he hadn't hated every minute of it. So I didn’t know how
his mind worked and I could stop worrying about him. He knew
where he was going even if I didn’t. Thank goodness I had kept
my mouth shut and not given him any other problems to contend
with.

We ceremonially grilled and ate the fish for supper and found
it good. Then Pete lured us all out onto the deck to sing, and
see the glory of the stars.

(2130 words)


